Location: Mayasura System, outlaying arm of Gelans ring system
Date: 82.10.21

Tales and rumors, on the fate of Mayasuran navy task forces that were not at Mairaath, is all that remains today. Many of the records on the situation in Mayasura at that time, have been lost to the astropolis making its cataclysmic entry and the resulting desolation. Due to this it is unknown, whether the defenses of Mairaath were left thin by betrayal, an oversight, sabotage; or as some belive divine intervention?

The most coherent retelling, comes from a group of heavy Mayasuran task force elements, approaching the inner system jump point on their way back to Mairaath. The thoughts of the crews, would have been on the most recent SIGINT/COMINT outages in Mayasura.

It is said that the first flashes of Mairaaths razing passed right as they jumped in, letting them witness the devestation which thought they could not have intervened in, had they entered system hours sooner. Only momentarily stunned, the Mayasurance famed training kicks in and the flightplan is discarded for a direct course towards their burning home.

As the course to Mairaath is followed, a large blip accelerates out of Gelan's Shackle. The orbital constellation at the time, put Gelans ring on the path of Mairaaths direct jump-point approach. Pickets should have been present! Their fate however is getting clear, as ship signatures are identified. The Mayasurans are outnumbered, outgunned and outmaneuvered, yet leaving would have been out of the question if they could have. 

What the Mayasurans could not have known, was that the raiders were about to leave for a rallying point; that what would follow was just down to bad timing.

* * * 

Ongoing repairs, made necessary by hyperspace storms, were completed with the time bought by a swift course reversal and the fleet stands ready awaiting their adversaries; and your orders. The outcome looks bleak, the odds are not even worth calculating, but that until the end, has never stopped a Mayasuran navy officer.